Improve OIDC client reference document (#39367)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-openid-connect-client-reference.adoc

You might need to request that a specific set of scopes be associated with an issued access token.
Use a dedicated `quarkus.oidc-client.scopes` list property, for example: `quarkus.oidc-client.scopes=email,phone`

[[use-oidc-client-directly]]
=== Use OidcClient directly

> One can use `OidcClient` directly to acquire access tokens and set them as an HTTP `Authorization: Bearer` scheme value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `OidcClient` directly to acquire access tokens and set them as an HTTP `Authorization: Bearer` scheme value.
```

Reviewer: Question: Is "Authorization: Bearer" the actual name of the scheme value, with that exact formatting, colon included etc.?  

-

Author: @sheilamjones I'll try to simplify it, `Authorization:` is a header and the `Bearer` is the scheme.

> For example, let's assume the Quarkus endpoint has to access a microservice which returns a user name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's assume the Quarkus endpoint has to access a microservice that returns a user name.
```

> First, create a REST Client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a REST client:
```

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.security.openid.connect.client;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.inject.RegisterRestClient;

import io.smallrye.mutiny.Uni;
import jakarta.ws.rs.GET;
import jakarta.ws.rs.HeaderParam;
import jakarta.ws.rs.Path;
import jakarta.ws.rs.Produces;

@RegisterRestClient
@Path("/")
public interface RestClientWithTokenHeaderParam {

    @GET
    @Produces("text/plain")
    @Path("userName")
    Uni<String> getUserName(@HeaderParam("Authorization") String authorization);
}
----

> Now use `OidcClient` to acquire the tokens and propagate them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, use `OidcClient` to acquire the tokens and propagate them:
```

[source,java]
----
import org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.inject.RestClient;

import jakarta.inject.Inject;
import jakarta.ws.rs.GET;
import jakarta.ws.rs.Path;
import io.smallrye.mutiny.Uni;
import io.quarkus.oidc.client.OidcClient;
import io.quarkus.oidc.client.OidcClients;
import io.quarkus.oidc.client.runtime.TokensHelper;

@Path("/clients")
public class OidcClientResource {

    @Inject
    OidcClients clients;
    TokensHelper tokenHelper = new TokensHelper();

    @Inject
    @RestClient
    RestClientWithTokenHeaderParam restClient; <1>

    @GET
    @Path("user-name")
    @Produces("text/plain")
    public Uni<String> getUserName() {
    	OidcClient client = clients.getClient("jwt-secret");
    	return tokenHelper.getTokens(client).onItem()
        		.transformToUni(tokens -> restClient.getUserName("Bearer " + tokens.getAccessToken()));
    }
}
----
<1> See the `RestClientWithTokenHeaderParam` declaration in the <<use-oidc-client-directly>> section.

[NOTE]
====

> If you also use xref:security-openid-connect-multitenancy.adoc[OIDC multitenancy], and each OIDC tenant has its own associated `OidcClient`, you can use a Vert.x `RoutingContext` `tenant-id` attribute. For example:

Reviewer: Question: Per the guidelines, "ID" should be written in uppercase. Just checking if we should write it as "tenant-ID" here or is it a case-sensitive value here?

Author: @sheilamjones it is OK in this case, it is the value of the attribute use by the Quarkus OIDC to represent the tenant id; we also agreed awhile back that ID token is where we capitalize it

> If you also use xref:security-openid-connect-multitenancy.adoc[OIDC multitenancy], and each OIDC tenant has its own associated `OidcClient`, you can use a Vert.x `RoutingContext` `tenant-id` attribute. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you also use xref:security-openid-connect-multitenancy.adoc[OIDC multitenancy], and each OIDC tenant has its own associated `OidcClient`, you can use a Vert.x `RoutingContext` `tenant-id` attribute. 
For example:
```

----
====

You can also create a new `OidcClient` programmatically.

> For example, let's assume you have to create it at the start-up time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's assume you must create it at startup time:
```

import io.quarkus.oidc.client.OidcClients;
import io.quarkus.runtime.StartupEvent;
import io.smallrye.mutiny.Uni;
import jakarta.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;
import jakarta.enterprise.event.Observes;
import jakarta.inject.Inject;

@ApplicationScoped
public class OidcClientCreator {

    @Inject
    OidcClients oidcClients;
    @ConfigProperty(name = "quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url")
    String oidcProviderAddress;

    private volatile OidcClient oidcClient;

    public void startup(@Observes StartupEvent event) {
    	createOidcClient().subscribe().with(client -> {oidcClient = client;});
    }

    public OidcClient getOidcClient() {
        return oidcClient;
    }

    private Uni<OidcClient> createOidcClient() {
        OidcClientConfig cfg = new OidcClientConfig();
        cfg.setId("myclient");
        cfg.setAuthServerUrl(oidcProviderAddress);
        cfg.setClientId("backend-service");
        cfg.getCredentials().setSecret("secret");
        cfg.getGrant().setType(Type.PASSWORD);
        cfg.setGrantOptions(Map.of("password",
        		Map.of("username", "alice", "password", "alice")));
        return oidcClients.newClient(cfg);
    }
}
----

> Now you can you this client like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can use this client like this:
```

Reviewer: There was a small typo (missing word) in line 396. Is "use" a correct proposal here?

Author: @sheilamjones Ouch, it was a big typo :-), thanks

VertxDynamicGraphQLClient client = builder.build();
----

[[configuration-reference]]

> == Configuration Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuration reference
```

> === OIDC Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== OIDC client
```

include::{generated-dir}/config/quarkus-oidc-client.adoc[opts=optional, leveloffset=+1]

> === OIDC Token Propagation

Author: @sheilamjones I was wondering if it should be `OIDC token propagation` (and similarly, `OIDC client` just above) ? This is the main reason why I've asked to review :-)

Reviewer: Yes, you are correct. For titles, they should be in sentence case, that is "OIDC token propagation" and also "OIDC client".

> === OIDC Token Propagation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== OIDC token propagation
```
